## Can you explain the difference between a HashMap and a Hashtable in Java?
The difference between HashMap and HashTable are as follows:

Synchronization

HashTable is synchornized which makes it thread-safe. We can share HashTable between multiple threads in our application.

Contrary to HashTable, HashMap is not synchronized and is not thread-safe by default. We cannot share HashMap between multiple threads in our application without synchornization code. We can use Collections.synchronizedMap() to make a thread-safe version of a HashMap.

**Speed**

HashMap is not synchronized, therefore it's faster and uses less memory than Hashtable. Generally, unsynchronized objects are faster than synchronized ones in a single threaded application.

Null Values

HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values, while Hashtable does not allow null keys or values.

Let use see an example of using null values in HashMap.

    // create a HashMap
    Map<String, Integer> hashMap = new HashMap<>();
    
    // put a null key into the HashMap
    hashMap.put(null, 2);
    
    
    // put a null value into the HashMap
    hashMap.put("test", null);

The above code would not create any problem.

Now, let's see an example of using null values in HashTable.

    // create HashTable
    Map<String, Integer> hashTable = new Hashtable<>();
    
    // try to put a null key and value into the Hashtable
    // this will throw a NullPointerException
    hashTable.put(null, 2);
    hashTable.put("text", null);
The put() method allows the null key and null value to be added to the HashMap, but it throws a NullPointerException when attempting to add them to the Hashtable.