## What is the difference between an Iterator and a ListIterator?
Iterator is used to to traverse any type of collection. Whereas ListIterator is used to traverse only list collections. The major difference between an Iterator and a ListIterator are:

### Traverse Direction

Iterator can only traverse in forward direction whereas ListIterator can traverse in both forward and backward directions.

Suppose we have the following list.

    List<String> list = new ArrayList<>();
    list.add("apple");
    list.add("banana");
    list.add("orange");

Let use try to traverse in both forward and backwards in the list using ListIterator.

    // traverse forwards
    ListIterator<String> listIterator = list.listIterator();
    while (listIterator.hasNext()) {
    String element = listIterator.next();
    System.out.println(element);
    }
    
    // traverse backwards
    while (listIterator.hasPrevious()) {
    String element = listIterator.previous();
    System.out.println(element);
    }

The above code block will run without any error.

Now, let's try to traverse in both direction using Iterator.

    Iterator<String> iterator = list.iterator();
    while (iterator.hasNext()) {
    String element = iterator.next();
    System.out.println(element);
    }
    
    // will throw an error      
    while (iterator.hasNext()) {
    String element = iterator.pervious();
    System.out.println(element);
    }

The above code block throws an error as the Iterator cannot traverse backward.

Furthermore, Listiterator supports CRUD operations, whereas Iterator only supports read and delete operations.