## What is Polymorphism? How can we implement it in Java?
Polymorphism is an important concept of object-oriented programming. It simply means more than one form. That is, the same entity (method or operator) can perform different operations in different scenarios.

In Java, we can implements polymorphism with two ways:

### 1. Method Overriding

If subclass (child class) has the same method as declared in the parent class, it is known as method overriding in Java. For example,

    // makeSound() in the superclass
    class Animal {
    void makeSound() {
    System.out.println("Animal Sound");
    }
    }
    
    // makeSound() in the subclass
    class Dog extends Animal {
    void makeSound() {
    System.out.println("Woof Woof");
    }
    }
As you can see we are able to use the same method makeSound() to perform two different tasks, which is the basic principle of polymorphism.

### 2. Method Overloading

In Java, if two or more methods have same name but different numbers/types of parameters, it is known as method overloading.

    // method with two parameters
    void add(int number1, int number2) {
    int sum = number1 + number2;
    System.out.println("Sum of 2 digits: " + sum);
    }
    
    // method with 3 parameters
    void add(int number1, int number2, int number3) {
    int sum = number1 + number2 + number3;
    System.out.println("Sum of 3 digits: " + sum);
    }
In the example above, we are able to use the same method for two different purposes i.e., we've "polymorphed" the method.